Rocket Hammer: Reinhardt's primary weapon. Pressing the primary fire button causes Reinhardt to swing the hammer, dealing damage to all enemies in a cone in front of Reinhardt.
The damage from this hammer is significant, so don't be afraid to start swinging when close to an enemy. Look for opportunities where you can hit more than one enemy with the Rocket Hammer to maximize its effectiveness.
Rocket Hammer can be swung in 360 degrees by rotating Reinhardt mid-attack, striking everyone in a 10 meter diameter rather than a 5 meter cone.
Although this is a melee weapon, the range is greater than a normal quick melee attack. Reinhardt does not have a normal quick melee attack like other heroes.
Rocket Hammer is strong enough to knock enemies back depending on which direction the hammer is being swung especially when they are airborne. This can be used to cause environmental kills.
Barrier Field: The Barrier Field is a powerful, rectangular barrier that Reinhardt carries like a shield, blocking most projectiles and bullets that hit it. It can be activated by pressing and holding down the secondary fire button. The barrier has its own separate Health pool, and Barrier Field is disabled if the barrier's Health drops to 0. Reinhardt will regenerate lost barrier Health after a few seconds of not activating Barrier Field.
Use Barrier Field to block incoming attacks from your opponents. This is especially helpful for your team, as you can use Barrier Field to let them move through a contested area without taking damage. Try to always stay at the front to keep your team safe.
Try to check if your teammates are behind your cover or not. You can keep an eye all around while holding the barrier.
Keep an eye on your barrier Health. If you start to get low, look for a place to take cover so that you can let your barrier Health regenerate.
Since Barrier Field only blocks attacks from one direction, be cautious of attacks from above or behind.
While dangerous in some situations, you can move faster to where you are needed (or out of danger) with your shield by taking it down for an instant, jumping in any direction and bringing Barrier Field up while you're in the air - Reinhardt's movement is not slowed by Barrier Field if it is activated during the jump.
Charge: When activated, Reinhardt will use rocket boosters to propel himself forwards. He gains significant speed, but loses most of his ability to turn. Reinhardt will stop his charge after a period of time or when he collides with a solid surface, whichever comes first. The first enemy Reinhardt collides with during his charge will become "pinned" to Reinhardt, and will be dealt heavy damage if Reinhardt then impacts a solid surface. All other enemies will be knocked away from him. Stuns, such as those from Roadhog or McCree, will immediately end Charge.
While it may be tempting to use Charge to leap into battle, Reinhardt cannot turn well while charging, making it easy for enemies to avoid it. It's best to use Charge at short or medium range, where enemies have less time to respond.
Charge has a relatively short cooldown and can be used to get closer to the fight after spawning.
Crushing a pinned target against a wall will deal massive damage, enough to kill almost any non-Tank instantly.
Watch your aim! On certain maps, it's very easy to Charge straight into an open pit, as Reinhardt has no way to stop his Charge early short of hitting a wall. Charge also automatically destroys fences without stopping.
When you catch someone in a charge and take them off the map, you die before they do. D.Va (and presumably other flying heroes), will be able to fly away to avoid dying.
Fire Strike: When activated, Reinhardt will hurl a flaming projectile forwards that deals decent damage to any enemy it hits. This projectile passes through enemies and barriers, meaning that a single projectile can hit multiple opponents. It stops upon impacting a solid surface.
Fire Strike is Reinhardt's only ranged attack. It's useful for hurling down choke points to deter enemies from coming through, as well as for hitting distant, stationary targets like Bastion.
While it's easy to think of this as only being a ranged ability, Fire Strike deals a lot of damage no matter the range it's used at. Don't forget to use it in melee engagements as well.
Reinhardt can use Fire Strike to "animation cancel" his Rocket Hammer swing. As soon as the Hammer impacts an enemy, use Fire Strike to deal fast burst damage to a target. This is useful against evasive targets like Tracer, where you may only have a limited opportunity to hit them. This also assists in quickly finishing tanks after charging them, such as Winston.
Earthshatter (Ultimate): Reinhardt's Ultimate ability. When activated, Reinhardt slams his hammer into the ground, creating a cone of force that damages and stuns enemies who are hit by it. This ability respects line of sight, so anyone Reinhardt can't see is not affected by it.
A simple but devastatingly powerful Ultimate when used correctly. An enemy who is stunned cannot perform any action, leaving them helpless and easy to kill.
Look to hit as many targets as you can with Earthshatter, as it can easily turn a fight in favor of your allies. Stunned enemies are an easy target for your area-of-effect attacks, and may also set them up for a potent Charge for future displacement.
Try to use Earthshatter in an area without much cover, as enemies can duck out of sight of you and completely avoid Earthshatter otherwise.
Earthshatter has a small amount of vertical height. Jumping enemies can still be hit by it.
If Reinhardt is knocked into the air when activating Earthshatter, he will not use it until after he lands.
Be careful when using Earthshatter on tanks, as it will not pass through barriers like that of Zarya, Winston or even other Reinhardts.
Reinhardt is incredibly hardy, able to absorb the most damage out of any of the Tanks, but suffers from being mostly restricted to melee attacks. As a result, Reinhardt works best as a team player. Stay at the front of your team and use your Barrier Field to absorb incoming attacks as you approach your opponents, allowing your team to move safely through an area and fire back without taking damage. Try to move between points of cover using Barrier Field instead of walking straight towards your enemies. Reinhardt may be tough, but he's not invincible.
One of Reinhardt's strengths is that he protects high damage-output teammates. If your team is composed mostly of flankers, Reinhardt might be less effective, as flankers generally do not wish to stand behind Reinhardt's shield.
Using Charge properly can be a challenge. In general, look for targets that are near corners or walls who are distracted by your team. Tanks like Winston and Roadhog are prime targets, as they are easier to hit with Charge due to their larger hitboxes. Charge will only pin enemies who are more-or-less directly in front of Reinhardt, so don't be surprised if you simply sail on by a jumping enemy. Remember, the closer you are to your enemy when you charge, the less time they have to get out of the way.
Try to avoid charging in a direction that will lead you deep into enemy territory, as that will leave you alone and flanked.
Reinhardt's shield is a powerful defense, but remember that any enemy can simply walk right through it. When shielding, try to always keep a few meters between you and enemies.
Reinhardt's defense depends on all enemies being in roughly one direction. Always keep your eyes open for flankers.
Reinhardt's shield is very effective against certain ultimates such as Graviton Surge, Deadeye, or Self Destruct, while being highly ineffective against others such as Mei's Blizzard, Genji's Dragonblade or Junkrat's Rip Tire. His shield can protect your team from much of the damage from Barrage, but he will most likely die in the process.
Earthshatter is most effective when used as a combo. A common Earthshatter combo is to use Earthshatter followed up by a Fire Strike, with Rocket Hammer attacks or a Charge to finish off anyone who survives. Remember that Fire Strike can hit multiple enemies when used; aim it so that it hits as many stunned enemies as possible. Make sure that all of your cooldowns are done when using Earthshatter.
Reinhardt works well when paired with Bastion or marginally Torbjörn, as he can protect their stationary defenses with his shield.
Reinhardt works extremely well in any kind of situation, as he can defensively protect his team's assets with Barrier Field and aggressively cause havoc among his enemies using Charge.